My daughter will be giving her first talk in the Theocratic Ministry School tonight.
As a Christian father, I feel happy, but I don't know if I deserve to feel this way.
I ran into some hard times spiritually in the past.
I received the help of the elders.
They encouraged me, telling me that I am precious in Jehovah's eyes, and that I occupy an important
place among Jehovah's people.
But still, I am plagued by feelings of guilt and worthlessness.
I wish I could just let go of such feelings and be a strong father and husband for my family.
But these discouraging thoughts continued to drag me down.
My mistakes were well in the past.
I accepted the discipline and applied the council that was provided.
And I have never fallen into the same course of wrongdoing since then.
But my demanding heart continues to condemn me.
I love Jehovah very much, and I am grateful for his mercy.
But I just don't feel that I am precious in his eyes anymore.
The elders continued to show sincere interest in me.
Their efforts really helped me together during those difficult times.
They encouraged me to always remember that the way Jehovah views us is much more important
than the way we view ourselves.
They used an illustration to convince me of this point.
A boy used to train hard for a marathon at school.
He wanted to make his father proud.
But at the actual race, he fell midway through.
He thought his father was no longer proud of him.
But the father told his son, you fell once, but you stood back up and finished the race.
I know you trained hard and I see your potential.
I am confident that you will succeed.
They told me that Jehovah sees us the way this father sees his son.
And if I stumble and fall, he still sees me as his precious son.
The elders also read to me 1 John 3 verses 19 and 20.
By this, we will know that we originate with the truth.
And we will assure our hearts before him regarding whatever our hearts may condemn us in.
Because God is greater than our hearts and knows all things.
They pointed out that the verb here, to assure, can also mean to persuade.
I was encouraged by studying and meditating on the scriptures that I too can persuade
my stubborn heart before God.
That night, I was once again overwhelmed by self-doubt.
Being on the account of King David helped me to understand how Jehovah really sees me.
As our creator, he is well aware of our weaknesses, as well as our motives and our intentions.
Meditating on these things helped me to regain my self-respect.
I also reflected on the example of King Jehoshaphat in 2 Chronicles 19.
The prophet Jehu reproved Jehoshaphat for allying himself with the wicked Ahat.
But Jehu also reminded him that Jehovah saw good things in him.
Through Jehu's words and the writings and the scrolls about Jehovah's forgiveness,
Jehoshaphat was able to persuade his self-condemning heart before Jehovah.
Jehovah can see past my mistakes as well.
He remembers my faithful service and sees my true potential and my sincere efforts to
do his will.
Reading and meditating on the Bible can change our view of the situation we find ourselves
in.
Now, I focus on the mercy Jehovah has shown me, and I don't allow my anxieties to rob
me of my strength.
I feel like a heavy burden has been lifted off my shoulders.
I thank Jehovah for persuading my heart to believe that I too can draw close to him
as one of his precious sons.